Dynamic Locomotion For Passive-Ankle Biped Robots And Humanoids Using Whole-Body Locomotion Control D. Kim 1 , S. Jorgensen 2 , J. Lee 3 , J. Ahn 3 , J. Luo 4 , and L. Sentis 5 Abstract Whole-body control (WBC) is a generic task-oriented control method for feedback control of loco-manipulation behaviors in humanoid robots. The combination of WBC and model-based walking controllers has been widely utilized in various humanoid robots. However, to date, the WBC method has not been employed for unsupported passive- ankle dynamic locomotion. As such, in this paper, we devise a new WBC, dubbed whole-body locomotion controller (WBLC), that can achieve experimental dynamic walking on unsupported passive-ankle biped robots. A key aspect of WBLC is the relaxation of contact constraints such that the control commands produce reduced jerk when switching foot contacts. To achieve robust dynamic locomotion, we conduct an in-depth analysis of uncertainty for our dynamic walking algorithm called time-to-velocity-reversal (TVR) planner. The uncertainty study is fundamental as it allows us to improve the control algorithms and mechanical structure of our robot to fulfill the tolerated uncertainty. In addition, we conduct extensive experimentation for: 1) unsupported dynamic balancing (i.e. in-place stepping) with a six degree- of-freedom (DoF) biped, Mercury; 2) unsupported directional walking with Mercury; 3) walking over an irregular and slippery terrain with Mercury; and 4) in-place walking with our newly designed ten-DoF viscoelastic liquid-cooled biped, DRACO. Overall, the main contributions of this work are on: a) achieving various modalities of unsupported dynamic locomotion of passive-ankle bipeds using a WBLC controller and a TVR planner, b) conducting an uncertainty analysis to improve the mechanical structure and the controllers of Mercury, and c) devising a whole-body control strategy that reduces movement jerk during walking. Keywords Legged Robot, Humanoid Robots, Dynamics 1 Introduction arXiv:1901.08100v1 [cs.RO] 23 Jan 2019 versatile task-oriented controllers and dynamic locomotion controllers. There is a family of walking control methods Hubicki et al. ( 2018 ); Raibert et al. ( 1984 ) that do not rely on explicit control of the horizontal CoM movement enabling passive- ankle walking and also fulfilling many of the benefits listed above. These controllers use foot placements as a control mechanism to stabilize the under-actuated horizontal CoM dynamics. At no point, they attempt to directly control the CoM instantaneous state. Instead, they calculate a control policy in which the foot location is a feedback weighted sum of the sensed CoM state. Our dynamic locomotion control policy falls into this category of controllers albeit using a particular CoM feedback gain matrix based on the concept of time-to-velocity-reversal (TVR) Kim et al. ( 2014 ). Another important dynamic locomotion control strategy relies on the concept of hybrid zero dynamics (HZD) Westervelt et al. ( 2007 ). HZD considers an orbit for dynamic locomotion and a feedback control policy that warranties asymptotic stability 1 University of Texas at Austin, ASE, US 2 University of Texas at Austin, ME, US. NASA Space Technology Research Fellow (NSTRF) 3 University of Texas at Austin, ME, US 4 Stanford University, CS, US 5 University of Texas at Austin, ASE, US Email: lsentis@austin.utexas.edu
